I've got dreams too!
I'm gonna become an even greater Hokage than you, Dad!
I swear I will!
So when you see Mom over there, please tell her…
that she doesn't have to worry about me at all!
Tell her I'm doin' my best!
THE FINAL VALLEY
We're leaving the rest to you… Kakashi, Sakura…
Sasuke and Naruto.
Lord Third!
Elder Brother, you finally settled things with Madara.
As Saru said…
let's leave the rest to the next generation.
Naruto Uzumaki…
Sasuke Uchiha…
You two will probably find a different conclusion than we did.
No…make sure you do.
Now, we're free too!
I'm going back to Suirendo!
I'm going to seclude myself in a forest.
We can finally go back to our homes.
It's like a dream.
Eight Tails, what are you gonna do?
Me? Well…
I think I'm gonna go back to Bee.
Even his annoying rap has ended up growing on me.
So, what about you?
What will you do?
I'll…
A little piece of each of your chakra…
is already within Naruto.
In short, Naruto is like a gathering place for you.
If you want to discuss something,
you can speak to each other through your chakra inside Naruto.
Kurama… Hmm?
I'd like you to stay inside Naruto as the overseer of the gathering place.
It's no longer a hardship for you anymore, is it?
Well, if you say so, old man, I guess have no choice.
What?! What's so funny?
Still not upfront with your feelings… You haven't changed at all, Kurama.
So the Great Ninja War is finally over now.
Yes. All that's left is…
Naruto and Sasuke… I asked you before.
After battling my mother Kaguya,
is there any change to the answers you gave me?
My answer's the same.
And I'm sorry, Super Gramps,
but there is one thing I feel strongly about after fighting Kaguya…
I'm really glad that Kushina Uzumaki was my mom.
Kaguya was different from anyone I've ever battled.
It's like she didn't have a heart at all.
It's said my mother Kaguya started off as a beloved goddess of the people.
I do not know for sure what caused her to transform
into a being that came to be called a demon.
I suspect something was triggered
the moment she devoured the Chakra Fruit.
In any case, you are not like my mother.
I trust you not to become like her,
even with all of the Tailed Beast Chakra within you.
Now then, all that's left is…
to undo the Infinite Tsukuyomi.
But how, specifically? Do you need our powers?
No, you're fine.
Naruto has the chakra of every Tailed Beast.
And Sasuke possesses the Rinnegan.
If they both weave the sign for rat simultaneously,
the jutsu will be undone.
What? That's it? It's so simple.
I researched thoroughly how to undo Mother's Infinite Tsukuyomi.
There's no mistake.
Now then, the rest is up to you, Sasuke.
Yes…
But first, I'm executing the current Five Kage inside the Infinite Tsukuyomi.
What did you just say, Sasuke?
What about the Five Kage?
Oh, and…
I'm putting all of you Tailed Beasts under my control…
and eventually, I'll get rid of you as well.
What did you say?!
Kurama!
He put the Tailed Beasts in a genjutsu…
and with a single glance too.
Naruto, it has ended up as I expected.
I have no choice but to leave the rest to you.
I cannot stay in this world any longer.
I shall soon fade away.
Yeah, and sorry for saying this, Six Paths Super Gramps…
but we won't end up like your sons.
I'm not Ashura.
And Sasuke isn't Indra either.
Sasuke! Is this what your current dream is?
Are you saying you're still seeking vengeance?
Sasuke!
I admit, at one time, all I wished for was destruction,
and vengeance was my goal.
But I feel differently now.
I want to destroy, and rebuild.
A village no longer shrouded in darkness.
I'll reform the shinobi world.
What I'm touting is…
…revolution!
Revolution?!
My dear Sasuke, what do you want to do?
What is it that you seek in the aftermath of this war?
I want to hear your honest thoughts and opinions.
All of the previous Kage created these current circumstances.
So I will become Hokage and change the village.
This Hokage you speak of… What do you mean by it?
If want to know so badly, I'll tell you.
Catastrophic Planetary Devastation!
Naruto… It's on you!
I swear I'll get you all out!
Just hang in there a little while longer!
Because of this war,
I've become quite adept at using my Rinnegan's abilities.
And all those who were in my way are gone.
Except for you… Naruto.
Things just don't go as planned.
When I bequeathed power to just one side,
I ended up with Indra and Ashura.
This time, even after entrusting power to both, the result is the same.
Nope… All sibling squabbling ends right here!
Let the Tailed Beasts go. They've finally gained freedom.
I'm friends with them, so I know.
They won't cause trouble anymore.
Naruto, you don't seem to get it.
You're now the Jinchuriki of all the Tailed Beasts.
Which means I plan to eventually get rid of
the Tailed Beast Chakra inside of you too.
What?!
In other words, you're going to die, Naruto.
Out of necessity.
If what the Sage said was true, there's no need to use
the Tailed Beast power inside you to release the Infinite Tsukuyomi.
I can take advantage of the Tailed Beasts that I captured.
I'll let them live until then.
You know that I won't let you do that, right?
I guess I'll have to deal with you first, Naruto.
Let's move this elsewhere. You know, don't you?
Wait, Sasuke!
Sensei!
The lingering aftereffects of the Sharingan…
I… I know in my heart that there's nothing I can do!
Even though I love you.
Even though I care about you so much, Sasuke. And yet…
I can't get close to you or exchange blows with you.
I can only whine and beg and cry like this again.
It's so pitiful, isn't it?
Sakura…
Thank you.
But…But Sasuke!
If there's even a little corner of your heart that thinks about me,
please don't leave again!
If we stick together, I know it can be like old times again…
You're…
…really annoying.
Sakura!
You didn't need to put Sakura under genjutsu!
If I didn't,
she would've chased after us, and gotten in the way.
Sakura…Sakura just wanted to help you, all this time.
So you're suggesting I enjoy a little romance?
Well, I have no reason to love her or be loved by her.
The only time you need a reason is when you hate someone!
And Sakura's not trying to make you hers!
She just wants to help you!
She almost died by your hand.
But she still thinks of your welfare and sheds tears for you…
because she suffers from loving you!
Mom…
How does Dad really feel about Big Brother and me?
What makes you ask that out of the blue?
The other day, he said to me, "That's my boy."
He usually says that to Big Brother, so I was really happy.
Is that so? That's nice.
But recently, Dad and Big Brother haven't been getting along, so…
I thought maybe I'm just a stand-in for Big Brother…
Your brother is your brother, and you are you.
Your father is always thinking about the both of you.
Then why is it always about Big Brother?!
That's not the case.
Your father represents our clan,
and he's expected to protect the Uchiha Clan.
So what?
It's just that Itachi is older than you, and your senior.
So he's given more duties relating to the clan.
Since your father oversees those duties,
it's only natural that his eyes will be more focused on Itachi.
But this is just between us…
When your father is with me, all he talks about is you.
He's always so serious,
and just not very good at expressing his feelings.
Here's your lunch, Sasuke.
When you come home, I'll watch over your shuriken practice.
It's not practice. It's training.
I'm leaving!
Have a great day.
Perhaps, those are the ties to a failed past.
Sasuke!
I made a promise.
Long ago…to Sakura.
I'll definitely bring Sasuke back!
I swear on my life!
Sensei! You know about my Ninja Way, right?
I'm gonna go.
Yeah… We're counting on you.
Love is a difficult thing…
I once had two sons.
I loved them both, and they loved and revered me.
But I entrusted everything to the younger brother.
That became the impetus
for the older brother to begin hating his brother and me.
Love transformed into hate.
What molded the current Sasuke,
is none other than his loss of love in the past.
Madara was the same too.
Are you saying that Sasuke shares the same fate as Madara?
No, not at all.
I, too, want to make the future better in my own way.
Having learned from past mistakes, this time I gave both of them the power.
The past does not exist
to remind the present that the future cannot change.
The past is supposed to exist for the sake of the future.
How did you see the potential within Naruto?
Naruto Uzumaki…
The boy was able to save and befriend Kurama,
who had become a concretion of hatred.
I shall let Naruto handle this.
Since I hope that hate can be transformed into love this time.
Or rather, I have hope that love can be regained.
Because, unlike my mother, Naruto as well as Sasuke…
know what love is.
This place, huh? I should've figured.
Doesn't it bring back memories, Sasuke?
Long ago, we fought here.
And just like before, you're going to lose.
You won't be hitting me with that same punch as last time!
I'm not about to let you get away with whatever you want.
I won't let you become the Hokage, either!
You don't even understand what it means to be Hokage!
I told you, that to me, being Hokage means revolution.
It's totally different from what you think.
Let me tell you something your big brother said…
It's not the one who becomes Hokage
who gets acknowledged by all.
But it's the one acknowledged by all who becomes Hokage.
I learned not from Itachi's words, but from the way he lived his life.
You and I came up with different answers.
Let me clarify this before we battle…
I'll teach you exactly what being Hokage means to me.
You don't understand the way Itachi lived his life at all!
Itachi is now in my past.
I will cut off everything in my past right here…
Starting with cutting you down.
Yours will be the last blood I shed…
in the memory of my late older brother.
Next time on Naruto Shippuden: "The Final Battle"
I won't let you!
THE FINAL BATTLE Tune in again!